{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2868
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 .AppleSystemUIFontMonospaced-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red16\green16\blue16;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c7843\c7843\c7451;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 but as a salesman. Fair enough. Okay. All right. So, this is the reverse 1B and basically it's the financial the detailed financial analysis that we do that's done in reverse when we have very little data. The purpose of doing this is to demonstrate to the client the financial capability we have that and sell our services down the road which makes us invaluable to them. We didn't just do the financial analysis. We're available to do or teach you the detailed financial analysis, but for me to make it relevant to you, I'm going to use your circumstance backwards when I don't have any data. Okay? And now he says, "Oh my goodness, you guys actually do that. Now we're in mine for the next step." He's dying to know what his return is. And we can make the return kind of almost anything we want. >> Okay. All right. So, we have a good process to market the company and to bring in the 1A report, which cost $20,000. Okay. In that 1A report, we have a onepage financial performer. It's 100 units. The rent is $3.50 per square foot. The operating costs are this. The NOI is this. We pick a cap rate and we come with a value. So, let's make sure that that So, so we know that value. Let's call that $120 million. Fair enough. So the finished building is worth $120 million. Now we say our developers like to operate on a 20% margin. This is like a residual land value calculation in a sense what I'm doing. Okay. So we say okay so 20% margin means you make $20 million. That means there's $100 million in costs. That includes everything land development charges HST blah blah blah blah blah. Fair enough. We looked at enough proformers now that we can make some sweeping assumptions. Land is 15%. So land is $15 million. Construction cost is 55% hard cost. So that's $55 million. Soft costs are 30%. That's $30 million. Architect's [snorts] fees are 2%. D. So we put all that in there. Fair enough. So now in a sense, we made up the numbers that would normally go into our 1B detailed financial analysis, right? Do [snorts] we know what the rents are? Sure, we gave them the rents. Do you know what the operating costs are? Sure. Do we know what the lease up time is? Well, yeah, we can guess it because that's what we do. So, now you've put all the components into the financial analysis and you've shown him a result. Okay. So, say now, Mr. Prospect, we've [snorts] completed this report for you. That completes what we do. Most clients at this stage say to us, what's the next step? Or in fact, when you introduce the feasibility study, you start by saying, "We're going to walk through the feasibility study. This is our final meeting, but at the end of the meeting, we're going to tell you what the next logical step is." and we're going to give you a peak into the future at no charge. Fair enough. Okay. So, at the end of Mr. Prospect, we think developers typically make about a 20% margin. We have taken all the inputs that we're sure of. We're sure of the utility cost. We're sure we're sure of the operating cost. We're sure of the rents. We're pretty sure the unit mix is right. We know how long it takes it to lease a building. But, you know, it's going to cost you several tens of thousand dollars, maybe hundreds of thousands of dollars to go to the next stage to see if the deal pencils out. Fair enough. What if we took a shortcut? That's what it is. It's a shortcut. Okay? And we know historically that land is 15%. We know historically this, this, and this. So, what we're actually going to do is build out a more detailed financial model to show you the returns. Now the nice thing about doing this is even although the numbers are to a large extent um created based on percentages but they're not way off they're not 50% off they could be 10 15 20% off land varies things like that right but we've now built the model and now what we can do is we can play around with the model what if we raise rents 10 cents per foot that was showing the impact of profitable remember we talked so long about we always talk about rent levels in fact our whole report is really about rent level right and rent level is driven by land, by location, by unit mix and unit size. We recommended that. By finishes, we're going to get to that later in our process. And by property management platform, we get that get to that later. But for now, let's just look and see how important rent is because at the end of the day, you don't control construction cost. You don't control operating cost. The market determines cap rate, but you do control rent by the design of your building. And today is basically our launching pad for determining what the rent is. Okay? And so what we've done now is created a financial model that if nothing else allows you to see the impact of rent based on a reasonable scenario or or the impact of rising interest rates. In the environment right now you can stress test all these things. So by building this model you at least get the ratio the dynamics of interest rates cap rates rents operating costs and things like that. Okay. as you go down the road, we want to we want to give you our model or sell you our model. We want to teach you people how to do it because this is a core competency that any apartment developer does it that does it. Okay, we call it the reverse financial analysis because we've actually reversed the process. We start with the end in mind. It's much like you can say this earlier in the presentation. It's much like the residual land value calculation. You don't know the value of land. You say, "Let me start with the building. What what's that worth?" And I work backwards into what I could maybe pay for the land. Fair enough. Here, what we're saying, we have an estimated value and we know our profit's going to be 20%. That's kind of what we work back in, right? And we're able to, if nothing else from this, demonstrate to you how you go about building an apartment perform, but rather than doing it philosophically, we're doing it with your buildings with the numbers that we already gave you. Okay? And so we think that, you know, we've done this for you as a bonus. In fact, at the beginning of the present, they say we've got a bonus for you. Okay? No charge. We've run the reverse the the reverse financial analysis. So, we've stepped into it, created it backwards. You'll find the right way to say it. Fair enough. We've engineered We've engineered a detailed financial analysis based on the finished value of the building. Okay? Its purpose is to articulate to you the next step. Okay? Not in terms of exact data, but in terms of what that process is, but with reasonable highlevel numbers. Certainly much better than the back of the envelope numbers that most developers do. What most developers say, oh, oh, the rent is uh 250 per square foot. We'll take 40% of those expenses. Uh we'll then have this much applied cap rate. See, it doesn't work. Fair enough. This is in our opinion the closest you can get to to a back of the envelope calculation. Okay? But it's not back of the envelope. At worst, it's taught you the process. Fair enough. At best, it's giving me a glimpse as to what your profit might be. Okay, we hope you enjoy this presentation.\
\
}